let me try and show you how the color of
the United States of America has changed
this is our electoral map from Oh for
george w bush turning this great
landmass republican red if i show you
the results from this time around you
can see there's a lot more blue in the
map and some key moments i suppose as
the election was fought here came in the
middle of the night the state of ohio
always used for a for any candidate
trying for election the twenty electoral
college votes but this was a one which
the Obama people went after big time
because it was so tight four years ago
bush only winning by fifty one percent
of the vote there they had it in their
sights and they got it if we go a little
to the west to Indiana this was a
tougher nut for the Obama team to crack
why well George Bush was hugely popular
here sixty percent of the vote
it's a known to be a Republican
stronghold particularly concerned
amongst voters about the war on terror
would Barack Obama be a good
commander-in-chief was one of those
worries that John McCain played on here
but it was all in vain Indiana went to
Barack Obama Virginia's worth a mention
as well this state kept us up half the
night really it was one of the first to
close the polls but in the event one of
the last actually to declare again
pretty tough state for a Democratic
candidate to take 54% to Bush with a
history of voting Republican but the
demographics of Virginia are changing
and now the electoral fortunes of
Virginia have changed too
so that is the state of play on our
electoral map let me just tell you about
some other data which is coming which
has made this election truly remarkable
he was truly successful was mr. Obama in
terms of voter turnout his actions
managed to persuade people to get out
and vote the highest for forty years
since 1908 when William Howard Taft was
elected the exit polls show a staggering
number of ninety-five percent of African
Americans voting from mr. Obama he got
the votes from two-thirds of a Hispanic
population another huge constituency and
perhaps this was the most significant he
had the first time and the young boat it
was sixty six percent of those people
going to the polls that voted for Barack
Obama and that's why he's the
president-elect